.\" ========================================================================
.\"
.IX Title "PYSOLFC 6"
.TH PYSOLFC 6 "Mar 2009" "Version 3.0" "PySolFC team"
.SH "NAME"
PySolFC \- a collection of more than 1200 solitaire games
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
\&\fBpysol.py\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILE\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
\&\fBPySolFC\fR is a collection of more than 1200 solitaire card games.
It stands for PySol Fan Club Edition, as it is a fork of
(the now unmaintained) PySol Solitaire.
.PP
There are games that use the 52 card International Pattern deck,
games for the 78 card Tarock deck, eight and ten suit Ganjifa games,
Hanafuda games, Matrix games, Mahjongg games, and games for an original
hexadecimal-based deck.
.PP
Its features include modern look and feel (uses Ttk widget set),
multiple cardsets and tableau backgrounds, sound, unlimited undo,
player statistics, a hint system, demo games, a solitaire wizard,
support for user written plug-ins, an integrated HTML help browser,
and lots of documentation.
.PP
The integrated help browser can be started by pressin <F1> after
the program has launched.
.PP
\&\fBPySolFC\fR is written in 100% pure Python and runs out-of-the-box
on Unix (X11), MS Windows and Mac OS X platforms.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.PP
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-game=\fIGAMENAME\fR
start game GAMENAME (Klondike, etc.)
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-gameid=\fIGAMEID\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-french-only\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-sound\-mod=\fIMOD\fR
MOD \- sound mode, one of following:
`pss' (pysol sound server), `pygame' (default), `oss' (open sound system),
`win' (MS Windows)
.TP
\fB\-\-nosound\fR
disable sound support
.TP
\fB\-\-noplugins\fR
disable load plugins
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display help message and exit
.PP
\fBFILE\fR \- optional file name of a saved game

.SH "FILES"
.IX Header "FILES"
\&\fBPySolFC\fR searches its data files in a number of directories including:
.br
the current directory
.br
/usr/share/PySolFC
.br
/usr/local/share/PySolFC
.br
/usr/share/games/PySolFC
.br
/usr/local/share/games/PySolFC
.PP
Options are saved in \fB~/.PySolFC/options.cfg\fR
.PP
Statistics and logs are saved in \fB~/.PySolFC/statistics.dat\fR
.PP
Comments are indexed in \fB~/.PySolFC/comments.dat\fR
.PP
Savegames are searched in \fB~/.PySolFC/savegames/\fR
.PP
Additional plugins are searched in \fB~/.PySolFC/plugins/\fR
.PP
Additional cardsets are searched in \fB~/.PySolFC/cardsets/\fR
.PP
Additional table tiles are searched in \fB~/.PySolFC/tiles/\fR
.PP
Additional music songs are searched in \fB~/.PySolFC/music/\fR
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
\&\fB\s-1HOME\s0\fR is used for finding the users home directory.
.PP
\&\fB\s-1USER\s0\fR and \fB\s-1LOGNAME\s0\fR are used for getting the initial name of the player.
.PP
Additional cardsets are searched according to the path variable
\&\fB\s-1PYSOL_CARDSETS\s0\fR. You can specify multiple directories.
.PP
Additional table tiles are searched according to the path variable
\&\fB\s-1PYSOL_TILES\s0\fR. You can specify multiple directories.
.PP
Additional music songs are searched according to the path variable
\&\fB\s-1PYSOL_MUSIC\s0\fR. You can specify multiple directories.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.IX Header "DIAGNOSTICS"
Exit status is normally 0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
\&\fBpython\fR(1)
.PP
\&\fBace_solitaire\fR, \fBfreecell\fR, \fBgnome-freecell\fR,
\&\fBkabale\fR, \fBklondike\fR, \fBkpat\fR, \fBseahaven\fR, \fBsol\fR,
\&\fBspider\fR, \fBtksol\fR, \fBxfreecell\fR, \fBxpat2\fR, \fBxsol\fR
.SH "BUGS"
.IX Header "BUGS"
Please report all bugs immediately to the author.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
Markus F.X.J. Oberhumer <markus@oberhumer.com>
.PP
T. Kirk
.PP
Skomoroh <skomoroh@users.sourceforge.net>
.PP
Brian Lenihan <brianl@users.sourceforge.net>
.PP
http://pysolfc.sourceforge.net/
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
PySolFC is
.PP
Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Markus Franz Xaver Johannes Oberhumer
.PP
Copyright (C) 2003 Mt. Hood Playing Card Co.
.PP
Copyright (C) 2005-2011 Skomoroh
.PP
All Rights Reserved.
.PP
PySolFC is distributed under the terms of the
\&\s-1GNU\s0 General Public License Version 3 or later (\s-1GPLv3\s0)
